


Offices: in Mumbai & Bostan USA
team : Asif Hasan
Technology, IP
and Vision

Vivek Khemani
Strategy, Finance
and Value

Ritesh Patel
Delivery, Practice
Management and Scale

Quantiphi provoides solution in Healthcare, financial services & travel
financial services:
The client is a large brokerage house.  
It publishes equity research on large and mid-cap listed companies in the Indian markets for investors.  
The primary mode of delivering this research is by way of “pdf” documents.  
These documents are made available to the clients by email (that contain hyperlinks to the reports) 
and through the client’s research portal.

There is rapid change in the readership behavior.  
More readers than ever before are adopting to mobility while reading research material. 
Readers are now smart-pad enabled which gives them the ability to interact with the content by way of touch.  
The attention span of readers is shortening, so it is important for publishers to deliver content innovatively 
and maximize message delivery.

Quantiphi conceptualized, designed and developed a path-breaking publishing solution.
It is a digital publishing platform designed to disrupt the current method in which research is delivered.


The solution will caus

Rrequirement of quantiphi

Hadoop Developer
Company Introduction
Quantiphi is an emerging decision science and big data Analytics Company focusing on charting a new path to business value creation through inspired analytics. It is founded on the belief that data is a company’s most valuable economic asset and analytics is the emerging path to value creation. We help our clients find and capture hidden value from data through a unique blend of business acumen, decision science, big-data technology and a unique high clock-speed delivery model.
Position: Hadoop Developer
Job Description
A Hadoop developer is responsible for the actual coding/programming of Hadoop applications. Ideally the candidate should have atleast 2 years of experience as a programmer. This role is synonomous to software developer or application developer – refers to the same role but in the Big Data domain. The Developer will be responsible for planning and designing next- generation “big-data” system architectures.
He/She is also responsible for managing the development and deployment of Hadoop applications. Must have subject matter expertise and hands on delivery experience working on popular Hadoop distribution platforms like Cloudera, HortonWorks, MapR.
Skill Required
Strong knowledge of Delivery Management processes, tools, onsite-offshore engagement model & Agile Project Management Methodologies.
Should have strong customer relationship and project management capabilities.
Should possess excellent team management, communication and leadership skills.
It is necessary that the successful candidate will strong experience to engage with customers at senior leadership levels.
Strong Experience on Big Data technologies and business roles.
Should have high credibility as a leader, mentor and coach who will provide leadership not only to his/her team but also across the organization.
Ability to think in a creative and innovative manner and continually evolve with changing business needs and conditions.
