To preprocess the raw text using R

stdTextCleaning <- function(text){
  text <- tolower(text)
  text <- removeNumbers(text)
  text <- removeWords(text, c(stopwords("english"), "can","cant","get","set","will","nothing","let", "hi", "try", 
                               "said", "told", "one", "oh", "thank", "marie", "fiance", "alicia", "jackie"))
  text <- gsub("\\b[a-z]\\b{1,1}", "", text)
  text <- removePunctuation(text)
  text <- stripWhitespace(text)
}




Mahout clustering

1-> Tokenized documents
2-> 


-----More details about mahout

Mahout Status.

	-Recommendatios
	-Clustering
		Clustering is all about organizing items from a given collection into groups of similar items or groups.
		Clustering a collection involves three things:
		 An algorithm—This is the method used to group the books together.
		 A notion of both similarity and dissimilarity—In the previous discussion, we relied
		on your assessment of which books belonged in an existing stack and which
		should start a new one.
		 A stopping condition—In the library example, this might be the point beyond
		which books can’t be stacked anymore, or when the stacks are already quite
		dissimilar. 
		Sweet - sugar, honey
		distance measures and their relationships with clustering. 
		methods that are popularly used for clustering.
		Suppose you were given the keys to a library containing thousands of books. The books were arranged in no particular
		order. Readers entering your library would have to sweep through all the books, one by one, to find a particular book. 
		Not only is this cumbersome and slow, it’s tedious as well. Sorting the books alphabetically by title would be a vast improvement—for readers
		searching for a book by title, that is. What if most people were simply browsing, or researching a general subject? Grouping the books by topic 
		would be more useful than an alphabetical-by-title ordering. But how would you even begin this grouping? Having just taken over this job, 
		you wouldn’t even be sure what all the books were about—surfing, romance, or topics you hadn’t encountered before. 
		-The strategy in the library examples was to merge stacks of books until some threshold was reached.
		The number of clusters formed in this example depended on the data; based on the number of books and the threshold, you might have ended up with 100, 20, or even
		just 1 cluster
		- measure of similarity - measure of similarity
		
		- Mahout contains various implementations of clustering, like k-means, fuzzy k-means, and canopy to name a few.
		- There are three steps involved in inputting data for the Mahout clustering algorithms: 
		   you need to preprocess the data, 
		   use that data to create vectors, 
		   and save the	vectors in SequenceFile format as input for the algorithm.
		- Mahout clustering algorithm reads sequence file as input.
		
		In Mahout, vectors are implemented as three different classes, each of which is optimized for different scenarios: 
		   DenseVector, RandomAccessSparseVector, and SequentialAccessSparseVector. 
		
		-- k-means clustering algorithm --
		
e.g 2)
 We have a great mental ability for finding repeating patterns, and
we continually associate what we see, hear, smell, and taste with things that are
already in our memory. For example, the taste of honey reminds us more of the
taste of sugar than salt. So we group together the things that taste like sugar and
honey and call them sweet. Without even knowing what sweet tastes like, we know
that all the sugary things in the world are similar and of the same group. We also
know how different they are from all the things belonging to the salty group.
Unconsciously, we group together tastes into such arms, and bigger heads. Apes look different from monkeys, but both are fond of
bananas. So we can think of apes and monkeys as two different groups or as a single
group of banana-loving primates
	-
	
	

